- Good afternoon.
Thank you so much for coming today.
I really appreciate seeing you all here.
It's really great.
I hope to keep the momentum
of what has really,
I think,
been just a spectacular WWDC so far.
Do you agree?
What I'm going to talk about
is all the tools you need,
all the tools you need to make great
applications worthy of Mac OS X.
And we've been working very hard
to make Mac OS X worthy for your
creativity and your innovation.
And I think you'll find that we
have had really just a fabulous
time and really enjoy doing it,
creating applications,
creating the tools that you're going
to use to create the next generation
of wonderful Mac OS X applications.
And to do that, I've been thinking about
what makes a good metaphor.
And we build on a great heritage,
a wonderful heritage of
terrific development tools,
terrific development environments.
Going back to Smalltalk and
Xerox PARC and Cedar and all
kinds of really great programming
languages and environments.
And really when I break it down,
I break it down into about five columns,
five pillars of development tools.
The first one, I think of is scalability.
Do the tools scale to meet your needs?
And then the second, productivity.
Are you actually
productive using the tools?
Do you get and feel that you're maximally
that your time is well spent using
these kinds of tools and environments?
The third one is performance.
Thinking about the performance
of your application,
the performance of what you get
out of the processor and out of
all the other systems that go in
to creating great applications.
Performance is an
ongoing thought process.
It starts at the architectural
phase and continues right through to
completion and finishing your product.
And then interoperability.
Does your application interoperate well?
We provide many APIs and frameworks
so that your application can play
well with all the other applications.
Your application exists in an
ecosystem of many applications.
And the payoff is that your users,
the customers,
have many applications they are
going to use to get their work
done or enjoy what they do.
And so you have to think about
the interoperability and the
tools have a role to play there.
The final one I'm going to
hold for later because it's,
keep it for the end.
So, scalability.
Scalability, well, two parts to that.
Xcode scalability.
Does Xcode scale for your needs?
Let's take a look at
where we've come from.
And data scalability.
And we've already
spoken a bit about that.
Let's jump right in.
So, last year when we met at WWDC 2005,
we introduced Xcode 2.1,
the Universal IDE.
And this was a development environment,
of course,
that could scale to two architectures,
to PowerPC and to the Intel CPUs.
And these architectures and making it
easy and simple to do was a big part of,
of course, the mission there.
And we've been working a number of years
to create tools that made it simple.
And the whole universal architecture,
universal binaries,
all the other products and technologies.
to make that as convenient as possible.
[Transcript missing]
We also in Xcode 2.3,
actually in previous versions of Xcode,
we had distributed builds.
Now, the primary purpose of distributed
builds prior to Xcode 2.3 was to make
use of ad hoc networks of computers
that you might have around you and your
colleagues around the local area network.
But we had a lot of requests for being
able to use dedicated forms of machines.
And really,
this CC-based technologies that the
distributed build mechanism was based
on only scaled to about six machines.
And after that,
adding additional computers
really didn't help.
Well, we broke through that with
Xcode 2.3 with a feature we
call dedicated network builds.
And it really more than doubled,
even quadrupled.
In fact, it really scales linearly.
So there's no limit to the
number of machines you can add.
It really depends upon the
scale and the amount of code.
you have.
and today,
today of course we heard the count.
And we're very pleased to say that there
are over 3,000 universal applications
and I want to thank you for that.
And it's really been a tremendous work
you've done to make this possible.
And so to thank you for that,
I've got a surprise for you at
the end of the presentation.
We also are releasing Xcode
2.4 with 64-bit tool support.
And this, of course,
completes for the Intel processor,
completes and does it really just
as we've done for Tiger last year to
provide 64-bit support for the G5.
We now provide it for Intel as well.
I want to actually reflect
how build times have improved
since we started with Xcode.
And we use Finder.
It's a large C++ Carbon application,
like a lot of large
applications out there.
And really what we've seen is
a nice steady shrink of the
amount of time it takes to build.
On laptops, for example,
it went from 809 seconds to 113 seconds.
And a lot of this is because Xcode is
using an architecture that's really
well designed for multiprocessors
and scales extremely well.
And of course, as you would expect,
that works even better
for quad processors.
And so going from Xcode 1 to
Xcode 2.4 today on the Mac Pro,
really we've seen between
a 7 and 8 load improvement.
So it's been a wonderful experience
in having the architecture and
the hardware and the software
really mate very well for it.
And Xcode takes advantage
of the processors.
And much of, as I think,
your applications need to be
designed with the multiprocessor
architectures in mind.
Xcode has had that since the beginning.
So what's next?
How do we follow this great run
of technologies and services and
applications that have come along?
Well, of course, Leopard is next.
Leopard is next.
And with Leopard, of course,
comes the fruition of a full,
complete 64-bit stack.
And we've designed a lot of the features
into the next generation of Xcode,
which we, of course, call Xcode 3.
Xcode 3 is on the DVDs you have.
And it's a really great technology
and has so many important features.
I'm only going to be able to,
I only have time today to
tell you about a few of them,
but the sessions really will
detail and go into great detail.
Of course, we give you the checkbox,
so simple to build for 32-bit and
64-bit universal applications.
And we provide you with all the
languages to be 64-bit compatible.
So that this is a very,
another great new capability for
you to add to your applications.
As you also have heard,
all the frameworks.
So really,
a big part of the data scalability that
I think is extremely important that you
need to use to make your applications
take full advantage of the processor
are going to be in these frameworks.
And one I'd like to mention and
call out that probably doesn't get
a lot of attention is Core Data.
Core Data is extremely simple to use,
and it scales to exabytes of data.
It provides you with a lot of data.
It's a tremendous capabilities,
both on 32-bit,
but even better on 64-bit architectures.
One application,
which since we brought Java up,
it comes right up,
and since Java is designed
to use a portable bytecode,
it doesn't encode any of
the processes inside of it.
Some applications that
make use of a lot of data,
like GeneSpring,
which is a 64-bit application in
Java that runs well in 32-bit as well,
but in fact in Java, of course,
we don't even think
about the address size.
It just came right up and works,
and I think you'll find that your
Java applications will be able to make
use of 64-bit right out of the box.
Now let's turn to productivity.
Productivity.
So productivity, of course,
is a big part of why you're here,
to hear about the productivity
improvements in development environments.
And really,
we want to provide you with tools
that streamline your workflow.
Streamline your workflow.
And I think the very important
part of that is really a more
productive programming language.
And really,
it means about solving problems faster.
So it's the tools and the
programming language together.
Working extremely well.
And of course, when we talk about a more
productive programming language,
you know what we have in mind.
We face, Apple faces Goliath competition.
And in facing that Goliath competition,
we really need to do that
with a better technology.
And the better technology is Objective C.
Now, what is it about Objective-C that
makes it so great?
It partly, it's dynamism.
It's partly that it does interact
extremely well with C and C++.
And partly that it mates
very well with tools.
Because of the metadata model
that is part of the class
hierarchy and the structures,
the fact that it has
a runtime type system,
the fact that all these technologies
mate extremely well together,
it really does make Objective-C really
into an incredibly powerful weapon.
And it allows us to get work done
to beat competition that's really an
order of magnitude larger than us,
and to do it by writing less code,
writing less code,
so that small teams can
be extremely effective,
extremely effective in getting
the same amount of functionality,
or in many cases more functionality,
with fewer people.
And that really is, of course,
a big part of what technology is about.
And so Objective-C really has
served Apple extremely well.
And so in thinking about it,
there's a lot of tech-- a
lot of capabilities here,
which I believe that if you
haven't used Objective-C yet,
it's a great opportunity here
at the conference to learn.
And of course, we're improving this.
You heard Bertrand talk this
morning about garbage collection.
There's two other important features
I'm going to talk about today,
properties and iteration.
Garbage collection, though,
is a key factor.
But of course, I don't think you should
just hear it from me.
I'd also like to invite up
someone else to tell you about
Objective-C and its virtues.
This is Ken Case from the Omni Group.
Please welcome.
Thank you, Ted.
Hi, there.
Thank you, everyone.
Small teams.
It's amazing what you can
accomplish with small teams when
you give them the right tools.
At the Omni Group, we have 12 developers
and we have six products.
You may have heard of some of them,
OmniWeb, OmniOutliner, OmniGraffle,
and this summer we introduced two more,
OmniDazzle and our latest OmniPlan.
12 developers and 6 products.
That's easy math.
We have two developers per product
and that's some pretty small teams.
The only way we can accomplish
that is through really great tools.
And one of the best tools in
our toolbox is Objective-C.
I first discovered
Objective-C 17 years ago.
And my first reaction is, well,
what's going on with this language?
What are all these
brackets doing in here?
What are these extra words in
between my parameter lists?
I just didn't quite get it.
But as I started to use it,
I discovered that this was a
really powerful language that
made me incredibly productive.
I could work at the highest levels
of abstraction with these nice
object-oriented frameworks and with
our own objects that we were creating.
Or I could dive all the way down and do
straight C code with all the existing
C code that's available for Unix.
And it just made us
incredibly productive.
So Objective-C for the last
17 years has been really core
to our development at Omni.
12 developers, 6 products,
and they're not just
tiny little products.
They're actually serious
productivity applications.
So I'd like to take a moment and
show you our latest Omni plan.
Demo screen, please.
Thank you.
OmniPlan is a product that we wrote for
ourselves because even with small teams,
software development is
a complicated process.
And so it takes a lot of organization.
You start out by listing, of course,
all of the tasks that you want to do.
And we do that in an outline
over on the left here.
And then on the right,
you'll see that we have
A timeline that displays all of those
same tasks and their relationships,
their dependencies in
Gantt chart notation.
Good product plans, of course,
need to be, first of all,
easy to create in the first place,
but also malleable and
easy to change later.
They need to be flexible because you
can't just create a plan at the very
beginning of a product cycle and hope
that it will magically work out all
the way to the end of the process.
So let me show you what it's
like to edit a project plan here.
Here we are at the end of our beta
feedback cycle and we've discovered
that we have a few changes to make.
Our beta testers have told us that
we need to fix some memory leaks.
We've got some memory tuning work to do.
And we have some new features
that we'd like to add.
The beta testers thought of a killer
feature that just hadn't occurred to us.
And it wouldn't take very long to add.
So let's put that in there.
And of course, we have some bugs to fix.
So to integrate this into our process,
we just hook them up, we connect them,
and we level out the work
because we do have a small team.
We can't do all those things at once.
So there, as you can see,
our final release is already adjusted.
We can look at the split schedule here,
see where the final release was,
where the final release is now.
And of course,
our next step would be to then
publish this to a web page and
share it with the rest of the team
so they can all see the task list,
the project list, the resource list,
and the Gantt chart itself.
And from that web page,
you can also download calendar files
that have to-do lists and so on.
But let's take a deeper look
at this extra time in here.
We said four weeks spent
doing this memory tuning,
two weeks spent fixing memory leaks,
and then two weeks fixing crashes.
Why does that take so long?
Well, first,
to track down the memory leaks,
you have to reproduce the conditions.
You have to do it with some sort of
tool like on the object meter that
sits there and tracks where all of
your memory allocations are going
and where you did all these retains
and release and matches them up.
And then once you've fixed your leaks,
you have to go back around and fix
the crashes that you've introduced
because the leaks are masking them.
So you have to go find all the
zombies and fix those as well.
Wouldn't it be nice if,
I'm sure you can see
where I'm going with this.
Wouldn't it be nice if we didn't
have to worry about doing all
those memory leaks all the time?
Now, when I saw Bertrand's talk there,
his picture there just spoke to me,
right?
I was the person in the audience
going like this when I first
heard that Apple was considering
doing garbage collection.
I said, garbage collection is great
for these scripting languages,
but I don't really want it in
our serious productivity apps.
It's not going to work for us, is it?
That's just,
that doesn't sound good to me.
So my first piece of
feedback to Apple was,
well, that's great.
You put it in Objective-C if you need to.
Just make sure that we can opt out so
we don't have to have it in our apps.
But then I think about these four weeks,
and this isn't the first time we've spent
fixing memory leaks in this project.
So four weeks is a lot of time.
We could spend that time doing
performance tuning in other
places in the application.
We could add some more killer features.
We could fix bugs.
We could just ship sooner,
and that would be great.
So--
The only question is,
is Garbage Collection really fast
enough to use in our application?
And I have some great
news to share with you.
This copy of Omni plan was actually
built with Garbage Collection.
And as you can see,
it performs quite well.
So I'm really looking forward to
shipping garbage collecting applications
on Leopard as soon as it's available
and enabling our small teams to do
even more with even better tools.
Thank you, Ken.
Garbage collection.
Essentially, there are two issues.
One, are you actually freeing up all the
objects that you're no longer needing?
And number two,
have you accidentally deleted
objects that you might still need?
Without garbage collection,
you have to worry about this.
Bugs creep into your
application without this.
Now, obviously,
garbage collection is not every possible
benefit for just simply removing bugs.
But let's take a look.
So this is a simple setter and getter.
Implementation,
the kind of thing you write pretty
frequently in object-oriented languages.
And one of the great things about garbage
collection is we just make that go away,
make away all the retained release count.
And it all just disappears,
and the code becomes much more beautiful,
really just the essential
assignments and returns.
And so GC really is going to
simplify a big part of the retained
count part of your programming.
Now, you can still leave in
the retains and releases,
but in the end,
you're going to have to do a lot more.
In a garbage-collected application,
they will be ignored,
or in the application code.
So you can remove them.
So it's still very convenient
to write frameworks that are
both GC-enabled and GC-safe.
Of course, this code,
since setters and getters are
a typical part of what we do,
let's make that easier.
And so we've added
properties to the language,
and this retains the four object-oriented
properties that you can override it,
either the setter or the
getter in the implementation.
The compiler will generate the
code for you to make that possible.
One great thing about that is
that with properties we can
now have the dot notation,
typical dot notation, so that,
and it calls the methods call
invocation still in Objective C.
And that works both on the
left and the right hand side
of the assignment statement.
Now using that, what do we typically do?
What do we typically do with this?
So, oftentimes we write for iteration.
And with iteration,
we have to write an induction
variable and count it along.
But of course, again,
since we have the built-in data
types of NS enumeration and so on,
we can, in fact,
make that part of the language as well.
So we've added in iteration
into the language,
and it has the very simple for loops.
These three features,
these three features,
I think are going to make Objective-C 2
on Leopard really terrific for you and
really improve programmer productivity.
So if Objective-C is the rock,
what's the sling?
What's the sling there?
And I think the sling, of course,
is Xcode.
And I could tell you about all
the great features in Xcode,
but I really think
I just want to show you.
So the big part about Xcode is we've
streamlined the editing process,
the building, and the debugging process,
and really to make your workflow
in using Xcode incredibly more
productive so that you can write the
greatest applications in the world.
So I'd like to invite Andreas Wendker up,
the Xcode ID manager,
up to give us a demo.
So good afternoon.
Over the last couple of years,
more and more of you have started
using Xcode for the development.
And we've been listening very
carefully to your feedback.
One of the things we've heard
loud and clear is that you want
a faster and better text editor.
And I'm here to tell you today that
we've been working very hard on that.
And already in the leopard's
seat you hold in your hands,
our text editor is up to five
times faster than opening
and scrolling through files.
Let me show that to you.
To demonstrate, I brought an open source
project called Osiris.
It has about 1,000 source files.
And the largest file I could
find in it is a C++ file.
It's not quite a megabyte large,
and it has about 20,000 lines of code.
So let me open that up for you.
Here it is.
So as you can see,
no more significant delay when opening
files and scrolling through them.
Let me show you another one.
This is an Objective-C class.
It's about 400 kilobytes large,
12,000 lines of code, and again,
no significant delay.
Another thing you might notice while
I scroll through the file here is
that we've also made significant
improvements to our syntax coloring.
In Xcode 3, we've identified many
more types of symbols,
and we give you more
options to color them.
Now let me close this project and
go to another one which I'm going
to use for the rest of my demo.
This is a variation of the
Core Recipes application and
a sample code for a core data.
The next feature I want to show you
is also very commonly requested,
and it's code folding.
Code folding is the ability to
collapse blocks of your code together
in the source editor so that you
get a better overview of your source.
Thank you.
And so if you just concentrate on
the pieces you're interested in,
let me use a keyboard command to just
collapse all the methods in this file.
So as you can see,
I now get a much better overview.
And I can just decide to just look at
the methods I'm currently interested in.
Now some people like to use
the keyboard as I just did,
and other people like to use the mouse.
So let me show you a new
preference we added to turn on the
so-called code forwarding sidebar.
The code folding sidebar has two modes.
The first one that you see right now,
the default one,
is just that it uses a color
gradient to show you the depth of the
nesting level you are in right now.
So just by scrolling
through the source file,
you can kind of get an idea for
where you are in the method bodies,
how deep you are in them.
The other mode gets activated
when you mouse over the sidebar.
At this moment,
the sidebar turns into what we
call the code focus control.
It allows you to collapse
blocks of code with a mouse.
And also, as you can see,
when I scroll over it,
it kind of gives you a very clear
indication for where you are in your code
and which block is going to be affected.
So you can just go ahead and
collapse that and open it up again.
The next thing we wanted to
do is make documentation more
easily accessible for you.
For that purpose,
we added the Research Assistant.
You can activate it in the Help menu.
And the Research Assistant is a
small window that you can place
on the side of your editor,
and it will follow around your
selection in the editor and show
you relevant information about the
methods you're working with right now.
Most of you are probably familiar
with the object and index methods.
Let me just select that.
And as you can see,
the Research Assistant just follows
me around and shows me information.
At the top of the window,
you have just some links to
take you to the header or
to the documentation window.
And below it, you find the information
you would expect,
the declaration and abstract description.
But it also shows you more things like
related APIs or related documents,
or even sample code if you have
it available for these methods.
So the Research Assistant gives you
documentation right at your fingertips.
The next feature I want to show you is
a feature that will become handy when
you work with build errors and warnings.
So far,
Xcode displayed errors and warnings
either in the build window or in
the errors and warnings smart group.
So let me start building my project.
And as you can see in the status bar,
it failed with an error.
But wouldn't it be nice if it
would show me this error right
in context in my source code?
Let me use the keyboard
command to jump to the error.
Here it is.
And now we can turn on what we
call message bubbles for errors,
warnings, and breakpoints.
And then as you can see,
we are embedding the
information right here.
So it's very easy for me,
without switching context
between different windows,
to go through my errors and warnings,
correct them,
which in this case is very easy.
Save and-- --and build again.
And then the error is gone.
Now let's take a look at something
beyond the source editor.
Let me go to another header file.
This is the header file for the
recipe objects in my database.
As you can see,
it has instance variables for
all the properties of a recipe,
a name, and the number of servings,
and things like that.
But if you look closely,
you might notice that I've had somewhat
of a whimsical moment a while ago.
And I actually called an
instance variable yummies.
Well, being here on stage,
I'm kind of embarrassed by that.
And I'd like to use a
more professional name,
like ingredients.
So typically,
what I would do right now is go into
the Find panel and start searching
for all the occurrences of yummies,
and then start replacing them one by one.
And we all know that
this is very tedious,
time consuming,
and it's also error prone because
it's very easy to miss a spot.
And wouldn't it be nice if the IDE would
help me with these kind of mass changes?
So there's a technology
that is called refactoring.
And I'm happy to
announce that in Xcode 3,
we are adding refactoring capabilities
for Objective-C to the IDE.
Refactoring means that you can make
structural changes to your source code
without changing the behavior at all.
And let me just show this to you.
So I'm going to select my
instance variable here,
and I'm going to bring up
the refactoring window.
And this window just gives me a
few options of-- gives me all the
options that I can use to work
on my instance failure right now.
Just this pop-up here at the top.
There are a few options to
move up and down the instance
variable in the class hierarchy.
The most common one is
the first one selected,
the rename operation.
So let me just go ahead
and enter the new name.
And let me also point out
this checkbox here at the end,
the related KVC members.
One of the great things about our
refactoring engine is that we are
building in specific knowledge
about the Cocoa conventions.
If you've ever worked
with key value coding,
you know that you have to keep
a lot of method names in sync
with your instance variable.
And there's lots of stuff
that is related to each other.
And we are building in this knowledge
right to the refactoring engine.
So once I end up all the
parameters of my transformation,
I can press the Preview button.
And then Xcode goes and analyzes
the project and will find all the
files that need to be changed.
and then comes back
with a list of changes.
Once it comes back with this list,
I can go ahead and preview the
changes just by clicking on it.
And as you can see,
we integrated fine merge-like
functionality right here
in Xcode in the workflow.
Now let's take a look at what we found.
The first one you would kind
of expect because that's the
instance variable where we started.
But if you go down the list of changes,
You can see that it found
all the related methods too,
like the add and remove objects.
And this is now the implementation file.
There's the instance variable again.
And already here,
you can start seeing that we
not only find occurrences of the
variable and the method names,
we even find invocations through
string that are done through
indirect key value coding calls,
like you can see here.
Let me just go down,
show you a few more of those.
And if you go on to the next file,
you can see that we are also not
limiting our changes to the source files.
We're even going into your Nib files.
We're going to keep actions, outlets,
and binding names in your Nib files
in sync with your code changes.
So in this case, for example,
we found a binding name that was using
yummies and now is using ingredients.
So let me go ahead and apply this change.
Just going to take a moment.
And let me go and save all the files.
And then let me show you
another refactoring operation.
A few minutes ago,
you had Ted talking about the
new features of Objective-C 2.0.
And wouldn't it be nice if you could
just start making use of these great
new features without doing much work?
For that purpose,
we added a menu item to convert
your code over to Objective-C 2.0.
So let me just go ahead
and start previewing this.
As you can see at the top of the window,
we give you a few options for which
features you want to start using,
modernizing the for
loops with the iterators,
starting to use properties, et cetera.
In this case,
I just limited it to using the for loops,
to using the new loop iterators.
Before I show you the difference,
I also want to show you this
little checkbox up here,
which is called Snapshot.
Behind this checkbox,
there hides another really
great feature of Xcode 3,
which we call Snapshotting.
Snapshotting is the ability
to capture and preserve the
state of your entire project,
to review how your project changed over
time in comparing the snapshots and
the current version of the project,
and to also go back to a snapshot
in case anything went wrong.
So it's a very lightweight-- Thank you.
So it's kind of a very lightweight--
it's not really an SCM system,
but it's lightweight on the local disk.
And you can use it in addition
to the SCM system that you
share with your coworkers.
I'll show you a little more
about snapshots in a moment.
Let me now just preview the changes
here for the modernized loops.
So here, for example,
you found a loop with an enumerator.
And we just replaced that
with a new for each iterators.
So let me also go ahead
and apply this change.
And now let me bring
up the snapshot window.
So this is the snapshot window
that just lists all the snapshots
I took for this project over time.
As you can see,
it has a short description
and a timestamp.
and even better than that,
I can expand the window
to show me more details.
And here, as you can see,
is the diff now of my project.
And again,
I can look at the differences in detail.
You might remember that we just
renamed yummies to ingredients.
So here's my snapshot.
So refactoring together the snapshotting,
we believe, will allow you to become
much more experimental and
more playful with your code.
Because first of all,
you can make changes much more fast now.
And also, you have a safety net in
case anything goes wrong.
We talked about Nib files just a minute
ago during the refactoring operation,
so I think it's time for me to show
you the new interface with NLeopard.
You might have already seen
it in the previous session.
Let me just go ahead and open it,
a Nib file here.
Interface Builder in Leopard is a
major refresh of Interface Builder.
It has a fresh new workflow
that is much more efficient.
It also has a fresh architecture that
makes it easier for you to extend
Interface Builder with your own objects.
I'm going to show you why in a moment.
Let me start by walking you
through the application.
Here's a new file window
of Interface Builder.
As you can see,
it has different views now, an icon view,
an outline view, or a browser view.
And then also we added a search
field so that you can filter on
the objects and more quickly reach
the objects you want to work with.
For example, you can find all the
text fields very easily.
Let me open up a window here and
start adding objects to my Nib file.
For that, I bring up the library window.
So the library window contains all
the objects I can add to my Nib file.
And it replaces the previous palette
mechanism that we used with a more
efficient and more flexible way.
First thing you will notice is
that the library is organized
in a hierarchy of groups.
Right now I have the entire
Cocoa group selected.
You can look at just the common controls,
the controllers.
Or I can select multiple groups
at the same time to reach all
the objects in both groups.
The library window also allows you
to create your own favorite groups.
So if you want to just put the same-- if
you commonly work with the same objects,
you can create your own groups
and just drag the objects in there
and then bring up those groups.
Let me add the text field to
my new profile and just play
around with it a little bit.
and of course if I want to
customize this text field,
I will go into the inspector.
So let me bring up the inspector.
Here it is.
If you've worked with
Interface Builder before,
you will immediately
recognize this window again.
It contains all the controls you need to
customize the objects in your Nib file.
For example, I could go ahead and
change the alignment,
or I can change the border type.
Just the usual stuff.
Now, what you might notice is
that the inspector is now
organized by class hierarchy.
It has individual slices for each of
the classes in the class hierarchy.
And that is one of the reasons why
it's so much easier now to customize
Interface Builder for your own purposes.
In the past, when you added an object
to Interface Builder,
you had to replace the entire
inspector infrastructure with it.
You couldn't reuse any of
the work that we've done.
Well, in the new Interface Builder,
it's enough for you to
just add a new slice,
and you can reuse all the work that we've
already done for the object classes.
So it's going to be a lot faster for
you to write your own inspectors.
Another thing our inspector
can now do is inspect multiple
objects at the same time.
So yeah, I just changed both
And even better than that,
we can now handle selections
of different types of objects.
So this is another advantage of working
with these slices because we can
still show you all the common slices
that apply to all selected objects.
So for example,
I can go and change the control size
of all controls at the same moment.
Now, interface builder wouldn't be
interface builder if I couldn't make
connections between the objects.
So like in the past,
I can just control click an object,
drag from the source to the destination.
But now,
instead of having to drop into the
inspector to complete my operation,
I get a little heads-up
display right here in place.
And I can just choose, for example,
to set the next key view outlet.
Even better than that,
if I control click without dragging,
I get another more extended version
of this heads-up display that shows me
more detail about all the incoming and
outgoing connections at the same time.
And again,
I can start creating new connections.
And as you can see,
it nicely fades out so that
I can still reach objects.
So as you can see,
I reach and see objects
right underneath the HUD.
And as you can see,
I just completed my connection here.
So let me drop out of interface
builder and go back into Xcode.
And let me start building
and running my project.
Since we just refactored a few files,
it's just taking a moment.
And here it is.
So let me drop out of interface
builder and go back into Xcode.
And let me start building
and running my project.
Since we just refactored a few files,
it's just taking a moment.
And here it is.
Um, actually, what did I do?
Let me just give me a second to
just figure out what I just did.
If it's possible, I'd like to switch over
to the other machine.
Yeah, this is where I invite
you into the time machine.
And we just go back in time.
Just one second, I just need to bring
up the project again.
But there's one more feature
I really want to show you.
And of course,
now what I have to do is I have
to go and refactor one more time,
because otherwise my project won't work.
But now you can see how
fast it actually is.
[Transcript missing]
Yeah, it's not my fault.
Anyway, let's just pretend there's
some data in this window.
So what I really wanted to show you
is that there are some directions.
And what I wanted to do is go and
prepare my recipe in the kitchen.
Of course, I have to step away from
the computer for that.
So to see it in more detail,
I added an enlarge button to my window.
Let me drop my window
into the full screen mode.
Unfortunately, it's empty right now.
This is, by the way,
using one of the new Cocoa APIs to
go into full screen mode.
Now, what if I want to debug this?
All right.
That allows me to show you
another feature that we use to
streamline the workflow in Xcode.
As you can see,
when we launched the application,
we added a small toolbar
to the editor window.
And this toolbar contains all
the buttons that I need for
most of the common operations.
For example, there's a button to just
turn on breakpoints.
And I've already set a breakpoint
in my application that drops
it into the full screen mode.
So let me just go back to it and run it.
And now, as you would expect,
Xcode will go into the debugger.
And here, I can use the toolbar to,
for example,
switch between the different threads.
I can look at the stack trace.
I can step over the different lines.
And what I can also do in Xcode 3
now is I can just hover over the
instance variables and get data tips.
And I can use these data
tips right in line here in my
editor to continue debugging.
So with the toolbar and the data tips,
you can now do most of the common
debugging operations right in the
editor without having to switch back
and forth between the different windows.
So let me continue.
And now, what if I want to debug
the opposite scenario,
where I drop out of the full screen mode?
Well,
I'm a little bit out of luck right now,
because there's no way for me to reach
Xcode unless I have a second screen.
Well, there's a solution for that, too,
in Xcode 3.
Let me go back into the code,
remove the old breakpoint.
and so the new one here,
which is the place that drops
out of full screen mode.
And let me also bring up the
debugger heads up display.
So this is a little window that
just have us here on the screen.
And when I go back into my application,
Okay, well, I can't show you that.
The idea behind the debugger hat here is
that it hovers on top of your screen and
even when you're in full screen mode,
you'll be able to debug scenarios
because it's on top of your
application without you having
to drop back into the Xcode app.
So it allows you to debug
different scenarios that you
won't be able to debug before.
And of course,
I can't show that to you right now.
Anyway,
I hope what you saw is that
we are keeping up a very
strong momentum in our tools.
There are lots of new great features.
And of course,
we implement all that so that
you can keep up a strong momentum
in your own applications.
So please start using Xcode 3.
Thanks, Andreas.
Thank you, Andreas.
I think that there's something wrong with
the mirroring in the heads-up display.
It's interesting how many bugs you
discover here on stage that you
never see in the development lab.
So, summary of some of the top features.
Faster editor, code focus,
message bubbles, snapshots.
Really what we're trying to do here is
create a fearless style of programming,
right, where you can try out different
things and really debug them.
Integrating file merge,
a feature I heard a lot of applause
for and I knew you'd love it.
All these things, I think,
are going to make Xcode an incredibly,
incredibly productive environment.
One of the parts about how
all this fits together,
of course, is a lot of you, of course,
are developing applications
that you want to ship using
Xcode 2 and Xcode 3 on Leopard.
And so,
one of the things which we've been
thinking about and gotten kind
of a bunch of feedback is that
you want to use these two tastes.
You want to use these two
great tastes together.
But, of course, in the past, you can't.
You can only have one
installed at a time.
So, today I'm going to make a commitment.
And, yes, we're going to, at Leopard GM,
we will have Xcode 2 and Xcode 3 be
able to coexist on your Leopard system.
Thank you.
Now, let's switch gears and
talk about performance.
And performance is two
great important parts.
First part is a 64-bit compiler.
And the second part is tools.
You heard Simon talk about that
64-bit doesn't improve everything.
So you need tools as well to understand
when to use 64-bit and whether 64-bit
is good for your application or not.
But let's first focus on the compilers.
So of course we give you GCC4 and
GCC4 is already a 64-bit compiler.
We've measured and seen
between 15% and 20% faster code
generation on 64-bit Intel.
And as well,
we also see that Dwarf is giving
us much faster build times just
by switching from Stabs to Dwarf.
So if you haven't switched,
I highly recommend that you do.
The better code generation in
part is because of the registers
and new addressing modes.
And in fact, it doesn't affect every
application equally.
When we use spec just as
kind of a benchmark comparing
32-bit and 64-bit performance,
we see very different behavior.
Some of the kernels degrade,
but most improve.
And in fact,
some improve quite dramatically.
If you have an application
which uses 64-bit data types,
you're going to see a lot
of different behavior.
It's going to love 64-bit, obviously.
But really,
even parsers and crunching applications
like the various compressions,
BZIP and GZIP,
both have significant improvement.
So you have to understand whether
or not your application is going to
be able to take advantage of 64-bit
if all you're doing is performance.
Obviously,
if you're going to want the scalability,
you're going to move
for that purpose alone.
But for performance purposes,
I think 64-bit is going to be the best.
64-bit can be a great improvement.
Now, how do you know whether or
not 64-bit is good for you?
Well, of course,
you need great performance tools.
And performance tools are
a bit like being a juggler.
One moment you start up Chud,
another moment you're
starting up an object Alec,
and another moment you're in
all the other performance tools.
And it's kind of a problem, right?
So, what do you do?
What do you do?
You're never in the right tool because
you want to look at one part and then
another part is under investigation.
And oftentimes, you're going to see, aha,
we need to look at the
multiple threads and the way
it interacts across the system.
And so, in thinking about this,
and of course,
the multi-core architectures
we live in now,
really we wanted to provide
you with a new tool,
something that brings all
the functionality together.
And so, to do that,
we've created something called X-Ray.
X-Ray is a new tool.
It's a new tool that's been
released on the XO Tools DVD.
And really,
I believe that it's going to be a
revolution because it's a framework that
brings together all the different kinds
of tools and instruments into one place.
And, well,
I could tell you more about it again,
but really,
a better demo is worth a thousand words.
I'll bring up Jeff Glasson,
manager of performance tools.
Thanks, Ted.
Thank you.
Hope you're having a great day.
You've gotten a lot
of information so far.
I have the honor and privilege to
be the first to introduce to you a
brand new application called XRay.
Now what XRay is, is it is a unified
performance analysis tool.
It allows you to analyze the behavior
of your program and how it affects
system performance and how it interacts
with other things on the system.
I think the best way to show you more
about it is to actually show it to you.
Let's hope the demo gods are appeased.
So the first thing you see when you
launch X-Ray is you see actually kind
of a somewhat familiar user interface.
It is reminiscent of a garage band.
And we have instruments.
They have instruments.
They're a little different.
The top of the screen is the area
where you can put your instruments.
There is a master track.
One thing that's very common
between music and performance
analysis is the concept of time.
And I'll explain that a
little bit more later.
And down at the bottom,
you've got a set of pre-built
instruments that we supply.
Probably by the time we ship this,
there'll be a lot more in that.
But this is what we have for you today.
You also have the capability of
creating your own instruments through
customization and new instrumentation.
So let's see how this works.
I'm going to drag a couple
instruments up to the instrument bar.
Object ALEC and network traffic monitor.
And actually,
let's make some more room here.
Make the window a little bigger.
Oops.
And also,
let's put something else up there,
File Activity Monitor.
And now,
I'm going to hit the Play button and
select an application we use every day,
which is Safari.
And we're going to run it.
So as Safari comes up under X-Ray,
you're going to see data starting
to be collected and displayed in the
graphical user interface up above.
And instruments can display information
in a number of different ways.
Let's stop that.
We have enough data to show you.
The object instrument is configured
to show you a graph of memory
being used by your program.
The network traffic instrument is showing
traffic for your network in and out.
And the little blips are showing
different file system events.
And if you scroll, you can get detailed
views with tool tips.
You can actually drop down here
and see a very extended view.
And you get stack traces
whenever an event occurs.
So you can use this-- a
little bit of applause.
So this is, I think,
the first time Apple has given you a
tool that shows you multiple different
views of different aspects of the system.
But what about that master
track I mentioned earlier?
So let me show you that.
Create a new document.
Earlier in the day,
you heard Steve mention accessibility.
And one of the benefits,
one of the other features
of accessibility in making
your apps accessible is this,
because we tie into the same
accessibility frameworks.
All I need to do is click Record,
and I'm going to launch an application
that is actually a modified version of
the AppKit TextEdit example that I've
modified to use Garbage Collection.
And I'm going to run it while
I'm recording what I do.
The app launches.
I can open a file.
Select some text.
Open up the text menu.
Change the color and then stop.
So what you see on the master track
is an actual recording of all the
user interface events that I did.
And there's actually a couple
different ways to look at that also.
This is just showing
them strung together,
but you can also look at them
in time as seconds or minutes.
And that's scalable,
and you can see exactly when
the event occurred in time.
Now, we didn't stop there.
We actually added the capability of
saving these recordings as templates
and integrated that into Xcode.
So let me show you that.
I've actually saved a little
bit longer script of a template.
And so I'm going to open the
TextEdit project in Xcode.
And under the debug menu,
I think those of you that have
used Xcode before have seen the
launch using Performance Tool.
And you might see a few things
you haven't seen before.
File System Monitor and below,
those are all actual X-ray templates.
And TextEdit is the one that I've
created myself to help me monitor
and performance tune TextEdit.
So let me open that up.
So I'm away from the keyboard.
No tricks, nothing up my sleeve.
It's actually going and running
the workflow that I've created.
Doing a little bit more
than I saved last time.
That's the end.
And this time,
the template that I created actually
contained a couple instruments to
monitor the garbage collector running.
The top graph is actually
showing bytes of memory in use.
And you can, again,
go through the detail view
and scroll and see events.
And then down here,
these are actual times when a
garbage collection event occurs,
and you can see the bytes collected.
So what you can do with this is
you can create a saved workflow.
You can then run it over and over again
as you change your application and
watch how it changes the performance.
So I've only scratched
the surface of this tool.
In fact,
we're actually not quite sure the
real uses of this tool is so powerful.
And that's up to you guys.
And if you really want
to learn more about this,
there's a whole hour dedicated
to X-Ray on Thursday afternoon.
I believe it's at 2 o'clock.
And I hope you guys are all there.
Thanks, Ted.
Thanks, Jeff.
I think this is an incredible new tool.
It pulls together a number of different
technologies and instrumentation,
has its own plug-in interface,
and as well it uses the
D-Trace scripting language,
event monitoring language,
to be able to monitor and very rapidly
create ad hoc instruments as well.
So we think this is a tool with
an incredible amount of potential.
And given that so many performance
problems sometimes are the
interactions of many systems,
databases, web servers, and applications,
we really believe this is going
to be a very powerful tool in your
toolbox to understand and do things.
And to really help figure out how to
make use of all that compute power,
all those CPUs and network capabilities
and other frameworks that we provide.
Of course,
it captures the events you need.
The instruments operate independently.
They're all in parallel.
And very importantly,
this concept of a master track to record
the events for repeatable debugging runs
so that you can actually inject a little
bit of science into performance tuning.
And I think that's going
to be a big help to you.
So that's X-Ray.
What's next?
Interoperability.
Well,
now you've heard Jeff and Steve talk
to you about the importance
of making your app accessible.
Well, it doesn't stop there.
We also want you to make your
app scriptable and automatable.
I know it's a lot of work.
But the payoff is great.
Here it is.
If you can make your app accessible,
all these kinds of applications,
and another one you'll see in a minute,
become part of the
interoperability of your app.
The interoperability
story of your application.
Making it scriptable, of course,
has been a great,
great benefit of Mac OS X for many years.
And of course, with Tiger,
we released Automator.
And Automator, very powerful,
wonderful feature.
Let's talk about Automator.
This little guy has been a big success.
People love him.
He's kind of cute.
And on top of that,
it really is part of the way people use
a desktop productivity system to use it
in this ecosystem of many applications.
There are thousands of actions now.
And your end users can use that
to combine together to create
functionality that has better lock-in.
And so, really,
I believe that Automator is a way
to extend the functionality and
capabilities of your applications
so that it is part of a very rich
system of great applications.
And of course,
we're not going to stop there.
We've been thinking about, now,
how can we improve this?
How can we improve this?
How can we improve on what has
been already a fabulous run?
And we're thinking about Automator 2.
And so,
Automator 2 is going to be easier to use,
using accessibility,
and more efficient to make it
even more powerful and faster.
And everywhere,
we're going to give you the capability
to take Automator functionality
and embed it in your application.
Big feature request
that you've asked for.
So let's give you a show and
show you what that looks like.
I'm going to invite Todd Fernandez up.
Todd.
Automation Tools Manager, give us a demo.
Thank you, Ted.
Good afternoon, developers.
Ted has just called upon you to
make your applications accessible,
scriptable, and automatable.
So to demonstrate how important
we really think that is,
I'd like to show you what
we've done with Xcode,
both as an example of the benefits
that we think you'll see by doing so,
What's that?
So Xcode is scriptable
in its initial release,
and we continue to expand and
improve upon its scripting
interface in subsequent releases.
Automator also has a number
of Automator actions,
so it's already automatable.
But we wanted to make it even easier
for developers like you to take
advantage of workflow automation.
So as Ted has said,
we've integrated Automator
right into Xcode.
But before I show you what we've done,
I want to set the stage a little bit.
Can I have the demo machine, please?
So let's imagine that you've been
hard at work all weekend adding a
new feature to your application.
In my case here,
the ubiquitous text edit.
And you really want to make it
look nice when you send it out
for some wider testing and maybe
to your boss so that he knows how
hard you were working all weekend.
But there's no easy way within Xcode
to create a package and maybe add
it to a disk image so it's easy to
distribute or send out as an email.
This cries out for a workflow.
So let me show you what we've done.
We've added a Workflows menu
to Xcode's Application menu.
As we can see, the first option--
is the workflow that I've described.
I want to create a package and add it
to a disk image so I can distribute
my great new version of TextEdit.
Now this is within Xcode,
and the three AM workflow model
view controller classes we used
to create it have been added to
the Automator framework so that
you can use them within your own
applications to do the same integration.
Now those of you with good eyes
may be able to determine another
great new Automator 2 feature,
workflow variables.
Those blue tokens in the text
fields in both actions are
in fact workflow variables.
Variables are an efficient way to
avoid repetitive data entry and pass
information into and between actions
outside of the normal data flow.
And they're even more powerful
when combined with application
integration as they are here.
Because the two variables I'm using,
product name and product version,
are defined and set by Xcode
based on information that it
possesses about my project.
So I don't need to reconfigure this
workflow when I want to run it against
some other great application I'm writing.
And in fact,
your applications can define new
variables that make sense within
your application so that your users
can create more powerful workflows.
And what we found is when you make
it easier for customers to integrate
your application into automation,
you've made loyal customers.
They will not want to go
back to doing things by hand.
So let me show you how this works.
Well, in fact,
I think my title in my package should
really have the product version as well.
So I can use type completion
to add it into my title.
and let's go ahead and run it.
So we'll see the workflow run and if all
goes well and the demo gods are with me,
the package and the disk image appear on
my desktop and the disk image is mounted.
So let's go ahead and
open that disk image up.
And as you can see,
all the name and version information
are on my package and disk image.
And when I open my
package up in installer,
I see that the name and
version are there as well.
So the combination of application
integration and variables give
me a powerful solution to make my
boss aware of all my hard work.
Let me clean this up a
bit before moving on.
So far I've talked about variables
making your workflows more efficient.
And I've talked about the new
AM workflow classes making it
possible to have Automator everywhere.
But I haven't talked about
making workflows easier.
Well, I'm glad that you liked what
Jeff showed you in X-Ray's master
track in terms of UI recording,
because we think it's great.
We agree with that.
We thought it was so cool that we wanted
to build it into Automator as well.
So let me show you what that looks like.
You might be able to see the new
record button in Automator's toolbar.
And when I click that button,
Automator will begin recording my
interactions with the OS and its
applications and encapsulating them in a
new Automator action called Watch Me Do.
And I'd love to show it to you.
So let me just make a simple
recording using our friend Xcode.
I'm going to switch the
build configuration.
Build and go, text edit.
Type something in and then
quit and dismiss the dialogue
and then stop my recording.
Let me zoom in so you can
see that a little bit better.
You can see within Watch Me Do,
each event is recorded separately in a
nicely graphical way so you'll be able to
tell what the heck this recording is six
months later when you look at it again.
And let me show you the playback.
Let me reset our state here just so I can
also do my no hands on the keyboard.
So I've already talked about
scriptability and automatability,
but I haven't talked about
accessibility any further.
And as has already been mentioned today,
as Steve's Leopard feature number seven,
the new Universal Access features,
as well as the spotlight within
your application to find and help
users find what they're looking
for to control your application,
X-Ray's Master Track and Watch Me Do all
depend on your applications
being thoroughly accessible.
There's now a huge payoff beyond
the obvious benefits for making your
application thoroughly accessible.
So, Otto is jumping for joy,
the workflow is completed.
And also to remind me that there's
one more cool thing about Watch Me Do.
If I select all my events,
I can copy and paste these into
Script Editor or simply drag them out
into Automator and translate them into
the equivalent GUI scripting code.
I'm glad you like it.
So then you can configure them
further to your heart's content.
So now that I've motivated you to
make your applications accessible,
scriptable, and automatable,
I hope to see all of you in the sessions
later this week that will help you
do just that with your applications.
Thanks very much.
Thanks, Todd.
Automator 2.
Watch me do, make it easier.
Anyone now can use Automator.
Workflow variables for
the more professional,
more experienced users and workflow.
This is for developers so you can
embed Automator in your application,
a framework that's accessible.
And workflow view and workflow
controller and workflow model.
Nice Cocoa Apps.
Scriptability.
We've talked a lot about scriptability.
And one of the big parts here is
how can we make it easier for you
to use all these capabilities?
Obviously, you could write Apple Script,
but can you actually use
scripts from other applications?
Applications like FrontRow, for example,
use Scriptability.
And so we've developed a feature
we call Scripting Bridge to make it
even easier to develop applications
that drive other applications.
So what's the model here?
Well, here it is, your application,
and you want to talk to iTunes
and get the current song.
Well, you could write Apple Script,
very straightforward,
and you simply tell app iTunes to
get the name of the current track.
It's that simple.
Now, learning Apple Script, of course,
yeah, well, it looks a little weird.
It doesn't look like a
programming language.
It's supposed to be kind of English-like,
and it is.
And it's very simple.
You can actually take this code and
you can embed it into your application
using Common Class and as Apple Script.
And it's just that easy to do.
But this is not very popular.
And one of the big reasons why it's not
very popular is now you have to know both
Apple Script and Objective-C to do it.
And as well, it's kind of slow.
It's kind of slow.
It takes about a second for the
Apple Script interpreter to start
up and for that machinery to work.
Now, there is a faster way.
Very experienced people know about this.
And it's called NSApple Event
And it's kind of hard and ugly
to use because you have to know
all the four character codes
and you write them like that.
And people actually do
this because it's faster.
But you're generating
the raw Apple events.
And that's a straightforward
way to do it.
But even though this is faster,
people don't often do
it because it's kind of,
well, obvious reasons.
There is a third way,
and we call it Scripting Bridge.
And what Scripting Bridge is,
we're going to give you a
tool to simply run it against
any Apple script dictionary,
against any application that has
an Apple script capabilities.
And it's going to generate for
you a set of Cocoa classes,
and it's just that.
That's the code there to get
the current song from iTunes.
It's that simple, those two lines.
But the best part is the performance.
It's not just simple.
It's also extremely performant.
It's 80 times faster than Apple script.
That's Scripting Bridge.
I think you're going to love it.
And I really encourage you to use this.
I think it makes every application
that's scriptable into part
of a service that you can use.
And I think you're
going to really like it.
Switching gears slightly,
let's talk about a couple of open source
projects and a little bit of things
that we've been doing on the horizon.
And many people have heard
about this technology we're
working on in-house called LLVM.
It's a compiler framework.
It's a new back end for GCC.
It uses the same front end as GCC.
And we're using it in ourselves.
We're exploring different
capabilities of it.
It has a just-in-time compiler,
kind of like Java does,
but for the C class of languages,
C-flavored languages.
And we've used this with OpenGL.
It's part of the OpenGL pipeline
that's in Leopard.
And it's been extremely wonderful to use.
Essentially,
as part of the pipeline for a given
scene that pulls together a number
of different functions and raster
operations and vector operations.
And we've been working
on this for a long time.
And we're working on
this for a long time.
They get specialized
dynamically on the fly.
What that means is, so for example,
if there's a feature like fog, right,
fog, that your image doesn't use,
that is often a very
computationally intensive.
And there's a lot of places
in the pipeline code where
that would be executed,
where the scene generation and
utility actually would leverage that.
And what LLVM does is it takes the
bytecodes that assemble this compiler
representation intermediate form
at runtime and optimizes it away.
So essentially, we're making a bit of the
compiler part of the runtime.
And we're going to be exploring
different uses of this technology.
So that's LLVM,
and it's available as well for you to
explore on the website at LLVM.org.
A bit of interesting
open source technology.
Another technology that
I know you're going to love.
Well,
another bit of interesting technology,
Spotlight.
Now,
there are many programming languages,
not just the ones that Apple supports.
And we provide you with a number
of importers for Spotlight,
but not for every language.
And we've been looking around
for some better indexing
technology to use with Xcode.
So we've been looking around,
and we found one.
It's called Doxygen.
Doxygen is an open
source indexing package.
And we found a number of incredible
and important benefits to it,
which I think the best way to look
at it is just for a demo again,
to see the spotlight integration.
So I'd like to invite
Brent Shank up to give us a demo.
Thanks, Ted.
As Ted said,
we're using Doxygen to power the new
Spotlight source code importer that
will ship with Leopard GM and Xcode 3.0.
Why are we using Doxygen?
Well, we're using it because it supports
all your favorite languages.
It supports C++, Objective-C,
and your favorite
scripting languages too,
like Perl and Ruby.
And we've been working really
closely with the Doxygen developer
to get this feature off the ground,
so we'd like to thank
him for all his help.
So what benefit does this
give you as a user of Xcode?
Well,
I'll be happy to show you right now.
I'm going to launch Xcode
and I'm going to open Osiris.
Andreas showed you this project before.
It's a large open source project.
It has thousands of source files.
I'll show you it has over 700 CC files.
If I have the right thing selected,
it has a number of Objective-C files.
So this is a fairly big project.
And if I were to perform a
full text search in Xcode,
it would probably take
longer than I wanted to.
And I'd go get a cup of coffee,
which is OK, because I love coffee.
But you'll notice there's a
fourth search option here.
It's called Spotlight Symbol Find.
And I'm going to enter
a search string here.
[Transcript missing]
I click on the search results.
They look just like search results
from doing a full text search do.
They take me right to the place in the
source file where that symbol exists.
I can search for some other things.
And again, it's a super fast search.
As we like to say,
searching for symbols in Xcode
now is not just going to be fast,
it's going to be spotlight fast.
We think you're really going to love it.
And again, it's a super fast search.
As we like to say,
searching for symbols in Xcode
now is not just going to be fast,
it's going to be spotlight fast.
We think you're really going to love it.
The search will actually
be performed on--
[Transcript missing]
So what I'm showing you now is not on
the Leopard seed that you got today,
but it's something we're
going to ship with Leopard GM.
There's one more thing, one surprise,
that's also not on the developer seed,
but we know you're going to love it.
I'd like to show it to you now.
and we call it Workspace.
And what this is, this is a really,
I'll close my project here,
this is a really lightweight
way to use Xcode.
So when you don't want all the
complexity of an Xcode project,
and you want to organize
arbitrary kinds of files,
this is a really great feature.
So I'm going to add the drag and
drop outline view example since I've
been doing a lot with outline views.
And you can see it shows me all
the source files in the project.
I can load them over here.
And now I get all the benefits of
Xcode's full featured source code editor.
But without the overhead
and complexity of a project.
And I can also display and
edit other types of files too.
So this is another feature that
we're really excited to provide
to you in the GM version of
Xcode that ships with Leopard.
Thank you.
So spotlight integration, Doxygen,
really working to improve the speed
and fidelity and capabilities really
of Xcode in a project-less session.
I've been holding out on you,
the fifth column here.
What is that fifth column?
And that fifth column is fun, right?
So how can we have fun?
I mean, programming isn't just about
improving our productivity,
but it's also about enjoying what we do.
And you saw a demo, you saw a quick,
Scott introduced it this morning,
a great new tool we call Dashcode.
And I want to demo for you now.
Dashcode is Apple's own complete
widget development environment.
It really is an incredible, fun way,
I think,
to introduce people to programming,
but as well to get
interesting things done.
And I think it's going to be a great
tool for you to use in no time at all.
It has some great templates,
as Scott said, a visual designer,
a reusable parts library, a code editor,
and a JavaScript debugger.
And I think you're going
to really enjoy it.
So let's give you a demo of Dashcode.
[Transcript missing]
So as you can see,
there's a number of templates.
Wish I had time to show
them all to you today.
Maybe to create RSS widgets is what
I'm going to show you right now.
But you can create a countdown
timer and use photo casts.
Great way to link into
Quartz Composer and so on.
So let's just do that right now.
And what you see here
is a visual designer.
On the left-hand side is
the document object model.
Expand that down.
Different attributes.
On the lower left here are little
guides just to walk you through.
And what it's telling me
is to provide an RSS feed.
So let's start up Safari.
I'm just going to drag it over.
And really, no typing.
Vice presidents can't
be expected to type.
Bam,
I've got myself a little RSS feed widget.
It's that simple.
Now you say, OK, Ted, that's great.
You know, wonderful that you can
build widgets pre-canned.
What can you do that
doesn't look like it?
So let's modify things.
Clean things up a little bit.
And I'm going to throw away
some of these nice components.
And just leave up the
image and content area.
Now I'm going to select and open
up in the inspector and just
tell it to hide the content.
Okay, so now I've got a kind
of an empty canvas here.
Make it a little bit bigger
and bring up my parts library.
And...
And let's scroll down and see all
the familiar kinds of components.
And I'm going to pick a gauge
up and just drop it there.
And now let's resize the gauge out.
[Transcript missing]
And here it is, kind of Xcode-like,
simple pop-up of all the functions.
And now let's look up and move that.
And I'm going to drop
a few lines of code,
something that just searches
through the different RSS entries,
looking for the words
iPod and Mac and counting.
Let's run it, see what happens.
And it hit an exception, a null value.
Let's take a look at the run log.
And it brings me, of course,
right to the error line.
And I noticed that in fact,
Document Get there,
there's no Document Get,
it's Document Get Element.
So let's go and I don't want to type.
Type the one letter E.
Element by ID, complete that.
Let's stop and run it again.
Did I lose my network feed?
Oh, Pod Mac.
Well, you know what?
I'm going to hard code in
which one's better today.
Since demo gods don't love me.
and David Davis.
Just so that you can see some
pretty colors because nobody
likes to see a gray dial.
Go, stop, run.
Ha ha.
No, still doesn't love me.
View, run log.
I'm going to debug this right on the fly.
It's going to make everybody necessary.
Ha ha ha ha.
I notice.
Mac is better.
So you can see very simple,
straightforward way,
lots of capabilities.
Bugger very powerful
and lots of great stuff.
So that's Xcode.
I think you're going to love it.
It's great to build widgets and
I think other interesting things.
Let's go back to
All the tools you need.
Scalability, productivity,
interoperability, performance,
and to have fun.
All the way from Xcode,
interface builder, automator, X-ray,
dash code.
Lots and lots of other capabilities I've
barely begun to scratch the surface on.
And really,
I think the innovation that the
Mac OS X developers and developer
teams has really is unique and
really pushing the envelope of
what I think the capabilities are.
And I think you're going to love it.
So that's our developer
tool lineup for Positron.
And as they're setting up,
what's our surprise?
What's our surprise?
So, given how heroic you've all
been in these difficult,
making the Intel transition and creating
all these wonderful applications,
we thought we would thank you.
And of course, the best way to thank
a hero is with a song.
So I'd like to invite up
James Dempsey and the Breakpoints Up.
- Thank you, Ted.
So in the past,
I've done a song or two at WWDC,
and this year I brought
along some reinforcements.
So I'd like to introduce to you
the breakpoints on guitar is Mr.
Gordy Friedman.
and as always on keyboard, Mr.
Victor Alexander.
So, over the past year there's been an
amazing transition to Universal Binaries
and I was thinking a little bit about
some of the technical nuances involved.
I wrote a little song
that I hope you all enjoy.
It's a little tune called
"Indian Reservations."
♪ Well you might have some
Indian reservations over bit flipping,
head tripping complications
♪ ♪ Getting it right however
everybody's interpreted ♪
♪ 'Cause if your processor changed ♪
♪ You might not keep things arranged
like the last one did ♪ ♪ Well,
eight bits make up a byte ♪ ♪ Each bit
is active or it slumbers ♪ ♪ But eight
is not enough to represent the larger
numbers ♪ ♪ So bytes are strung
together now in twos and fours and
eights ♪ ♪ Each byte contains a
portion of the represented state ♪
[Transcript missing]
♪ I said you might have
some Indian reservations
over network of byte order ♪
[Transcript missing]
Your code could give up the
ghosts without them network
to host type utilities.
Oh, my processor says potato,
yours says potato.
Oh, two different patterns
represent the same data.
One puts significance first,
the other saves it for later.
The most annoying switcheroo
since Anakin became Vader.
♪ Well you might have some
Indian reservations over file or
format specifications ♪ ♪ What is
the risk dealing with files on
disk is what you want to know ♪
The file header should mention
or it's simply convention
how the bytes should go.
Well do you have to break this code
or has someone else cracked it?
You can use an API that's
already abstracted.
Your development schedule
won't be greatly impacted.
Then you can blog about it
like some guy on .macdiv.
Well,
you dealt with your Andean reservations.
All the byte swapping,
flip-flopping permutations.
Fixed every goof,
made your code bulletproof.
[Transcript missing]